U. S. Department of Justice
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Criminal Justice Information Services Division
Criminal Justice Information
Services (CJIS) Division
Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) Program
Cargo Theft
User Manual
Version 3.0
Document Date: 04/07/2023
Prepared by:
Law Enforcement Engagement and Data Sharing
Sections (LEEDS)
Crime and Law Enforcement Statistics Unit
(CLESU)
CHANGE DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
Revision Change Description Created/Changed by Date Approved By
3/29/2013 Amy Blasher
1.0 Initial Release Leslie Underwood/Kristi
Donahue
2.0 Updates to submission Kristi Donahue
methods
4/07/2023
3.0 Addition of Offense Jennifer Parker
Code 26F Identity
Theft and 26G
Hacking/Computer
Invasion
Contents
1 INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................................... 4
1.1 Background of UCR Cargo Theft ..................................................................................... 4
1.2 UCR Programs and Non-Program Domains ..................................................................... 5
1.3 Jurisdiction .................................................................................................................... 6
1.4 Referrals from Other Agencies ....................................................................................... 7
2 CARGO THEFT INCIDENTS & OFFENSES .................................................................................. 7
2.1 Definition of a Cargo Theft Incident ............................................................................... 7
2.1.1 The Concept of Acting in Concert ........................................................................................................... 7
2.1.2 The Concept of Same Time and Place..................................................................................................... 7
2.1.3 Examples of Acting in Concert and Same Time and Place ...................................................................... 8
2.2 Classifying Offenses ....................................................................................................... 8
2.2.1 Cargo Theft Offenses .............................................................................................................................. 9
2.2.2 UCR Offenses ........................................................................................................................................ 10
2.3 Offense Definitions ...................................................................................................... 12
2.3.1 Source of Offense Definitions ............................................................................................................... 12
2.3.2 Nonconforming Offenses ...................................................................................................................... 12
2.4 Cargo Theft Offense Definitions ................................................................................... 13
2.5 Location Codes ............................................................................................................ 16
2.6 Weapon/Force Involved Codes .................................................................................... 22
2.7 Victim Type Codes ....................................................................................................... 23
2.8 Property Codes ........................................................................................................... 24
3 SUBMISSIONS .................................................................................................................................. 36
3.1 NIBRS .......................................................................................................................... 36
3.1.1 Data Elements and Data Values ............................................................................................................ 37
3.2 Cargo Theft Incident Report ......................................................................................... 37
3.2.1 Completing the CARGO THEFT INCIDENT REPORT (Form 1110-0048) .................................................. 38
3.3 Cargo Theft Technical Specifications ............................................................................ 40
4 SCENARIOS OF CARGO THEFT ................................................................................................... 40
5 SCENARIOS OF INCIDENTS NOT MEETING CARGO THEFT GUIDELINES ..................... 42
6 QUALITY ASSURANCE REVIEW (QAR) PROCESS ................................................................. 42
7 APPENDIX A – LEGISLATION ..................................................................................................... 44
8 APPENDIX C – SUBMITTING CARGO THEFT DATA TO THE FBI UCR PROGRAM ....... 52
9 APPENDIX D – UCR OFFENSE DEFINITIONS .......................................................................... 55
10 APPENDIX E – CONTACT THE FBI’s UCR PROGRAM........................................................... 66
1 Introduction
The FBI’s UCR Program is a nationwide, cooperative statistical effort of over 18,000 city,
university and college, county, state, tribal, and federal law enforcement agencies (LEAs)
voluntarily reporting data on crimes reported or known. Since 1930, the FBI has administered
the UCR Program and continued to assess and monitor the nature and type of crime in the
nation. The program’s primary objective is to generate reliable information for use in law
enforcement administration, operation, and management. However, over the years, UCR data
have become one of the country’s leading social indicators. Criminologists, sociologists,
legislators, municipal planners, the media, and other students of criminal justice use the data
for varied research and planning purposes.
This manual is intended to assist law enforcement agencies in reporting incidents of cargo theft
to the FBI’s UCR Program. It addresses policy, the types of offenses that constitute a Cargo Theft
incident, how to identify a cargo theft, and guidelines for reporting cargo theft.
1.1 Background of UCR Cargo Theft
Due to the significant economic impact that cargo theft has on the United States economy, and
the potential for use by terrorist organizations, H.R. 3199, the “USA Patriot Improvement and
Re-authorization Act of 2005,” was mandated by Congress on March 9, 2006. The Act requires
the Attorney General to “take the steps necessary to ensure that reports of cargo theft
collected by federal, state, and local officials are reflected as a separate category in the FBI
Uniform Crime Reporting system…” In response to this mandate, the CJIS Advisory Policy Board
approved a definition for Cargo Theft in December 2006. It was developed, not as a legal
definition for prosecutorial purposes, but to capture the essence of the national cargo theft
crime problem and its negative effect on the economy of the United States. The legal elements
of knowledge and intent were intentionally omitted. For UCR purposes, Cargo Theft is defined
as follows:
Cargo Theft is the criminal taking of any cargo including, but not limited to, goods,
chattels, money, or baggage that constitutes, in whole or in part, a commercial shipment of
freight moving in commerce, from any pipeline system, railroad car, motortruck, or other
vehicle, or from any tank or storage facility, station house, platform, or depot, or from any
vessel or wharf, or from any aircraft, air terminal, airport, aircraft terminal or air navigation
facility, or from any intermodal container, intermodal chassis, trailer, container freight station,
warehouse, freight distribution facility, or freight consolidation facility. For purposes of this
definition, cargo shall be deemed as moving in commerce at all points between the point of
origin and the final destination, regardless of any temporary stop while awaiting transshipment
or otherwise.
1.2 UCR Programs and Non-Program Domains
Forty-seven states in the nation have their own UCR Programs which streamline the collection of
UCR data from local LEAs, ensure consistency and comparability of data, and provide a higher
quality of service to the law enforcement community. Establishment of a UCR Program is not
limited to state governments. Territorial, tribal, and federal agencies may also institute the
UCR Programs. UCR Programs gather crime information from the LEAs under their domain and
forward the data to the FBI.
The following are the standards under which a UCR Program must operate:
1. A UCR Program must conform to the FBI’s UCR Program’s submission
standards, definitions, specifications, and required deadlines.
2. A UCR Program must establish data integrity procedures and have personnel assigned to
assist contributing agencies in quality assurance practices and crime reporting
procedures.
3. A UCR Program’s submissions must cover more than 50 percent of the LEAs within its
established reporting domain and be willing to recover any and all UCR-contributing
agencies who wish to use the UCR Program from within its domain. (An agency wishing
to become a UCR Program must be willing to report for all of the agencies within the
state.)
4. A UCR Program must furnish the FBI’s UCR Program with all of the UCR data collected
by the LEAs within its domain.
These standards do not prohibit a state from gathering other statistical data beyond the
national collection. Data integrity procedures should include crime trend assessments, offense
classification verification, and technical specification validation.
The FBI fulfills its responsibilities in connection with the UCR Programs by:
• Editing and reviewing submissions for both completeness and quality.
• Contacting contributors, when necessary, in connection with crime reporting matters.
• Requesting individual agency information, when necessary, from the contributing UCR
Program.
• Assessing the validity of reported data by providing a Quality Assurance Review (QAR).
• Coordinating with the contributing UCR Program to conduct training on law enforcement
record-keeping and crime-reporting procedures.
• Sending state UCR State Program Bulletins for distribution to contributing agencies.
Should circumstances develop whereby the UCR Program does not comply with the
aforementioned standards, the FBI may reinstitute a direct collection of data submissions from
LEAs within the UCR Program’s domain.
The FBI’s UCR Program refers to LEAs in states without a UCR Program as direct contributors
because they submit their data directly to the FBI. These agencies work closely with staff from
the FBI’s UCR Program to ensure their data adhere to UCR Program guidelines.
1.3 Jurisdiction
The purpose of establishing appropriate jurisdiction is to depict the nature and amount of crime
in a particular community. Throughout the United States, there are thousands of LEAs; some
have overlapping jurisdictions. To ensure LEAs with overlapping jurisdictions are not reporting
duplicate data (offense or arrest), the FBI’s UCR Program developed the following guidelines:
1. Local, county, state, tribal, and federal LEAs should report offenses that occur within their
jurisdictions.
2. When two or more local, county, state, tribal, or federal LEAs are involved in the
investigation of the same offense, the agency with investigative jurisdiction based on local,
county, state, tribal, and federal law and/or applicable interagency agreements or
memorandums of understanding should report the offense. If there is uncertainty as to the
lead or primary agency, the agencies must agree on which agency should report the
offense.
3. LEAs will report only those arrests made for offenses committed within their own
jurisdictions.
4. The recovery of property should be reported only by the LEA who first reported it missing
and/or stolen regardless of which agency recovered it.
As a rule, cities having their own police departments report their own crime data. However,
smaller locales may combine their crime data with larger agencies (e.g., sheriffs’ offices and
state police) for reporting purposes. This practice most often occurs in rural or unincorporated
areas employing constables, town marshals, or other officers who infrequently report offenses.
In cases where the county sheriff or state police has a contract to provide law enforcement
services for an incorporated city, the sheriff or state police will continue to report incidents
occurring within the boundaries of these cities. These reports should reflect the geographic
location of where the incident occurred by use of the city’s Originating Agency Identifier (ORI).
In some localities, the sheriff, state police, or a federal LEA will assist a local police department
in the investigation of crimes committed within the limits of the city. Even though this is the
case, the city police department should report the offenses unless there is a written or oral
agreement specifying otherwise.
1.4 Referrals from Other Agencies
If a reporting agency refers the investigation of an incident to another local, state, or federal
agency after submitting the data to the FBI’s UCR Program, the original reporting agency must
delete its report. The agency receiving the referral would then report the incident as if it were
an original submission.
2 Cargo Theft Incidents & Offenses
Participation in the Cargo Theft data collection requires law enforcement report certain facts
about each criminal incident that comes to their attention within their jurisdiction. In most cases,
officers capture the data through an incident report form they complete when a crime is first
reported. (See Appendix B, Cargo Theft Incident Report Form, for an example of an incident
report form.) In other instances, officers may collect data via a mobile terminal that interfaces
with their department’s records management system (RMS).
2.1 Definition of a Cargo Theft Incident
Cargo Theft is defined as “the criminal taking of any cargo.” This could also include physical
theft as well as cyber theft and documentation fraud, where the ownership, destination, or
contents of a cargo shipment is altered. Additionally, many incidents of cargo theft involve
employees. With regard to Cargo Theft, the FBI UCR Program defines an incident as one or
more offenses committed by the same offender, or group of offenders acting in concert, at the
same time and place. Application of the concept determines whether the crimes should be
reported as individual incidents or as a single incident comprised of multiple offenses.
2.1.1 The Concept of Acting in Concert
Acting in concert requires that all of the offenders actually commit or assist in the commission
of all of the crime(s) in an incident. The offenders must be aware of, and consent to, the
commission of all of the offenses(s); or even if nonconsenting, their actions assist in the
commission of all of the offense(s). See Section 2.1.3, Example 2, Acting in Concert. This is
important because all of the offenders in an incident are considered to have committed all of
the offenses in the incident. If one or more of the offenders did not act in concert, then more
than one incident should be reported. See Section 2.1.3, Example 1, Acting in Concert.
2.1.2 The Concept of Same Time and Place
The concept of Same Time and Place is based on the premise that if the same person or group
of persons committed more than one crime and the time and space intervals separating them
were insignificant, all of the crimes make up a single incident. Normally, the offenses must
have occurred during an unbroken time period and at the same or adjoining location(s).
However, incidents can also be comprised of offenses that by their nature involve continuing
criminal activity by the same offender(s) at different times and places, as long as law
enforcement deems the activity to constitute a single criminal transaction. (See Section 2.1.3,
Example 3, Same Time and Place.)
2.1.3 Examples of Acting in Concert and Same Time and Place
Because it is not possible to provide instructions that will cover all of the possible situations
that might occur, the reporting agency must use its best judgment in determining how many
incidents were involved in some cases.
Example 1, Acting in Concert
Four men wearing ski masks conducted an armed robbery (UCR Offense Code 120 Robbery) at a
trucking facility. One of the robbers found a female employee in the break room and raped her
there outside of the view of the other offenders. When the rapist returned from the break
room, all four of the robbers left the facility. In this example, there were two incidents: The
rape (UCR Offense Code 11A Rape) is a separate incident because one of the four offenders
independently committed this act and therefore, all the offenders were not acting in concert.
Example 2, Acting in Concert
During a robbery (UCR Offense Code 120 Robbery) scenario similar to Example 1, the rape (UCR
Offense Code 11A Rape) occurred in front of the other victims. One of the other offenders told
the rapist to stop and only rob the victim. By pointing the gun at the other victims, he
prevented any of them from coming to the rape victim’s assistance and thereby, assisted in the
commission of the crime. In this example, there was only one incident with two offenses, (i.e.,
robbery and rape.)
Example 3, Same Time and Place
Over a period of 18 months, an employee used the Internet to gain unauthorized access to the
shipping records for Company ABC (UCR Offense Code 270 Embezzlement). The employee then
obtained corporate credit card information and pre-paid the freight fees for a shipment of
imported wines (UCR Offense Code 26B Credit Card/Automated Teller Machine Fraud). Via
computer, the suspect illegally diverted the shipment to an alternate address (UCR Offense
Code 26E Wire Fraud).
2.2 Classifying Offenses
Cargo Theft is not considered an offense by itself. Law enforcement must report all offenses
within a Cargo Theft incident. For example, rape might be accompanied by the crimes of motor
vehicle theft and kidnapping/abduction (Cargo Theft offense = motor vehicle theft). Law
enforcement must ensure each reported offense is a separate, distinct crime and not just a part
of another offense. For example, every robbery includes some type of assault, but because the
assault is an element that makes up the crime of robbery, only robbery should be reported.
However, if during a robbery the victim was forced to engage in sexual relations, both robbery
and rape should be reported since forced sexual intercourse is not an element of the crime of
robbery (Cargo Theft offense = robbery).
2.2.1 Cargo Theft Offenses
The following table lists the Cargo Theft offenses. Following the name of each crime is the UCR
Offense Code. At least one of these offenses must be present within an incident in order to be
considered a Cargo Theft incident. The definitions of each of these offenses can be found in
Section 2.4.
UCR
Offense Offense
Code
Robbery 120
Extortion/Blackmail 210
Burglary/Breaking & Entering 220
Larceny/Theft Offenses
Theft From Building 23D
Theft From Motor Vehicle 23F
All Other Larceny 23H
Motor Vehicle Theft 240
Fraud Offenses
False Pretenses/Swindle/Confidence Game 26A
Credit Card/Automated Teller Machine Fraud 26B
Impersonation 26C
Wire Fraud 26E
Identity Theft 26F
Hacking/Computer Invasion 26G
Embezzlement 270
Bribery 510
2.2.2 UCR Offenses
The following table lists all of the UCR offenses that can be reported in conjunction with the
Cargo Theft offenses listed above. The definitions for each of these offenses can be found in
Appendix D.
UCR
Offense Offense
Code
Homicide Offenses
Murder and Nonnegligent Manslaughter 09A
Negligent Manslaughter 09B
Kidnapping/Abduction 100
Sex Offenses
Rape 11A
Sodomy 11B
Sexual Assault with an Object 11C
Fondling 11D
Incest 36A
Statutory Rape 36B
Assault Offenses
Aggravated Assault 13A
Simple Assault 13B
Intimidation 13C
Robbery 120
Arson 200
Extortion/Blackmail 210
Burglary/Breaking & Entering 220
Larceny/Theft Offenses
Pocket-Picking 23A
Purse-snatching 23B
Shoplifting 23C
Theft From Building 23D
Theft From Coin-Operated Machine or Device 23E
Theft From Motor Vehicle 23F
Theft From Motor Vehicle Parts or Accessories 23G
All Other Larceny 23H
Motor Vehicle Theft 240
UCR
Offense Offense
Code
Counterfeiting/Forgery 250
Fraud Offenses
False Pretenses/Swindle/Confidence Game 26A
Credit Card/Automated Teller Machine Fraud 26B
Impersonation 26C
Welfare Fraud 26D
Wire Fraud 26E
Identity Theft 26F
Hacking/Computer Invasion 26G
Embezzlement 270
Stolen Property Offenses 280
Destruction/Damage/Vandalism of Property 290
Drug/Narcotic Offenses
Drug/Narcotic Violations 35A
Drug Equipment Violations 35B
Pornography/Obscene Material 370
Gambling Offenses
Betting/Wagering 39A
Operating/Promoting/Assisting Gambling 39B
Gambling Equipment Violations 39C
Sports Tampering 39D
Prostitution Offenses
Prostitution 40A
Assisting or Promoting Prostitution 40B
Purchasing Prostitution 40C
Bribery 510
Weapon Law Violations 520
Human Trafficking
Human Trafficking – Commercial Sex Acts 64A
Human Trafficking – Involuntary Servitude 64B
Law enforcement should classify and report offenses after the preliminary confirmation of a call
for service or a complaint establishes that a Cargo Theft crime was, in fact, committed.
Agencies should record only offenses known to law enforcement, not the findings of a court,
coroner, jury, or prosecutor.
2.3 Offense Definitions
2.3.1 Source of Offense Definitions
The FBI’s UCR Program has used the Summary Reporting System (SRS) format for collecting
crime data from LEAs since the 1930’s. The hierarchical reporting format used in the SRS
restricts the type of data that can be collected in Cargo Theft incidents. In an effort to keep
the reporting of cargo theft consistent in both the National Incident-Based Reporting System
(NIBRS) and SRS, the Cargo Theft data collection does not follow application of the Hierarchy
Rule used by SRS. The information collected on the Cargo Theft Incident Form and the Cargo
Theft Technical Specification will mirror what is reported by NIBRS agencies.
The use of standardized definitions in Cargo Theft is essential to the maintenance of uniform
and consistent data. This practice ensures the FBI’s UCR Program considers and appropriately
counts all criminal offenses of law, regardless of their different titles under local and state law
or United States Titles and Statutes.
As developed by law enforcement, the purpose of the FBI’s UCR Program is to provide a
common language that transcends varying local and state laws. Therefore, the definitions that
were developed for UCR are not intended for charging persons with crimes. Instead, the
definitions should be used as receptacles to translate crime into the common UCR language
used throughout the United States. Though state statutes specifically define crimes so that
persons facing prosecution will know the exact charges placed against them, the definitions
used in Cargo Theft must be generic in order not to exclude varying state statutes relating to
the same type of crime.
The offense definitions used in Cargo Theft are based on the common-law definitions found in
Black’s Law Dictionary, as well as those used in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC)
2000 Uniform Offense Classifications. Because most state statutes are also based on the
common-law definitions, even though they may vary as to specifics, most should fit into the
corresponding UCR offense classifications.
2.3.2 Nonconforming Offenses
If a state statute for an offense includes additional offenses not fitting the Cargo Theft offense
definition, the nonconforming offenses should be reported according to their Cargo Theft
offense classifications. For example, some states have larceny statutes that are so broadly
worded as to include the crime of embezzlement. If an offender perpetrates embezzlement
within such a state, law enforcement should report the offense via Cargo Theft as
embezzlement, not larceny/theft.
Certainly, unusual situations will arise in classifying offenses, and this manual cannot cover all
circumstances. In classifying unusual situations, law enforcement should consider the nature of
the crime along with the guidelines provided. The Cargo Theft Offense Definitions in Section
2.4 will aid in classifying offenses.
2.4 Cargo Theft Offense Definitions
There are 13 Cargo Theft offense categories. The offense categories are listed below in
numerical order. Each entry includes the following information:
• Cargo Theft offense code, offense name
• Definition
• Considerations and examples (as appropriate)
120 Robbery
The taking or attempting to take anything of value under confrontational
circumstances from the control, custody, or care of another person by force or threat
of force or violence and/or putting the victim in fear of immediate harm.
Because some type of assault is an element of the crime of robbery, an assault should
not be reported as a separate crime as long as it was performed in furtherance of the
robbery. However, if the injury results in death, a homicide offense must also be
reported.
The victims of a robbery include not only those persons and other entities (businesses,
financial institutions, etc.) from whom property was taken, but also those persons
toward whom the robber(s) directed force or threat of force in perpetrating the offense.
Therefore, although the primary victim in a bank robbery would be the Financial
Institution, the teller toward whom the robber pointed a gun and made a demand
should also be reported as a victim. Carjackings are robberies in which a motor vehicle is
taken through force or threat of force. Report only a robbery not a motor vehicle
theft.
210 Extortion/Blackmail
To unlawfully obtain money, property, or any other thing of value, either tangible or
intangible, through the use or threat of force, misuse of authority, threat of criminal
prosecution, threat of destruction of reputation or social standing, or through other
coercive means.
220 Burglary/Breaking & Entering
The unlawful entry into a building or other structure with the intent to commit a
felony or a theft.
A forced entry is where force of any degree or a mechanical contrivance of any kind (e.g.,
a passkey or skeleton key) is used to unlawfully enter a building or other structure. An
unforced entry is one where the unlawful entry is achieved without force through an
unlocked door or window.
LARCENY-THEFT OFFENSES
The unlawful taking, carrying, leading, or riding away of property from the possession or
constructive possession of another person.
23D Theft From a Building
A theft from within a building which is either open to the general public or to which
the offender has legal access.
23F Theft From Motor Vehicle
The theft of articles from a motor vehicle, locked or unlocked.
23H All Other Larceny
All thefts that do not fit any of the definitions of the specific categories of
Larceny/Theft listed above or those that are not applicable to cargo theft.
240 Motor Vehicle Theft
The theft of a motor vehicle.
A motor vehicle is a self-propelled vehicle that runs on the surface of land and not on
rails and that fits one of the following property descriptions:
Automobiles – sedans, coupes, station wagons, convertibles, taxicabs, sport utility
vehicles, or other similar motor vehicles that serve the primary purpose of transporting
people.
Buses – motor vehicles that are specifically designed (but not necessarily used) to
transport groups of people on a commercial basis.
Recreational Vehicles – motor vehicles that are specifically designed (but not
necessarily used) to transport people and also provide them temporary lodging for
recreational purposes.
Trucks – motor vehicles that are specifically designed (but not necessarily used) to
transport cargo.
Other Motor Vehicles – any other motor vehicles, e.g., motorcycles, motor scooters,
trail bikes, mopeds, snowmobiles, or golf carts.
FRAUD OFFENSES
The intentional perversion of the truth for the purpose of inducing another person or other
entity in reliance upon it to part with something of value or to surrender a legal right.
The most specific subcategory of fraud should be reported whenever the circumstances fit the
definition of more than one of the subcategories listed below. For example, most frauds would
fit the definition of false pretenses/swindle/confidence game. But if a credit card was used to
perpetrate the fraud, the offense would be classified as credit card/automated teller machine
fraud.
26A False Pretenses/Swindle/Confidence Game
The intentional misrepresentation of existing fact or condition or the use of some
other deceptive scheme or device to obtain money, goods, or other things of value.
26B Credit Card/Automated Teller Machine Fraud
The unlawful use of a credit (or debit) card or automated teller machine for fraudulent
purposes.
26C Impersonation
Falsely representing one’s identity or position and acting in the character or position
thus unlawfully assumed to deceive others and thereby gain a profit or advantage,
enjoy some right or privilege, or subject another person or entity to an expense,
charge, or liability that would not have otherwise been incurred.
26E Wire Fraud
The use of an electric or electronic communications facility to intentionally transmit a
false and/or deceptive message in furtherance of a fraudulent activity.
26F Identity Theft
Wrongfully obtaining and using another person’s personal data (e.g., name, date of
birth, Social Security number, driver’s license number).
This offense includes opening a credit card, bank account, etc. using a person’s information. This
offense should not be confused with Impersonation (26C) (falsely acting in the character or
position to unlawfully deceive others to gain a profit or advantage; when impersonating another
person, the offender would not be in possession of another person’s personal data).
26G Hacking/Computer Invasion
Wrongfully gaining access to another person’s or institution’s computer software,
hardware, or networks without authorized permissions or security clearances.
270 Embezzlement
The unlawful misappropriation by an offender to his/her own use or purpose of
money, property, or some other thing of value entrusted to his/her care, custody, or
control.
510 Bribery
The offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting of anything of value (i.e., a bribe,
gratuity, or kickback) to sway the judgment or action of a person in a position of
trust or influence.
2.5 Location Codes
This data element is used to report the type of location/premises where each offense in
an incident took place.
The FBI’s UCR Program recognizes that for many incidents, there is more than one
possible choice for reporting a location. Therefore, law enforcement personnel should
use their best judgment in reporting location type after investigating the crime and
considering the circumstances surrounding the location and the offender’s intent during
the commission of the crime.
Because the geographic location of an incident is not always the same as the functional
location of the incident, the FBI’s UCR Program relies on agencies to report the most
appropriate location type. For example, if an offense occurs at an elementary school
playground during school hours, the location should be classified as 53 = School –
Elementary/Secondary. But, if the offense occurred at the same physical location on a
Saturday afternoon when the school is not operating and the public are allowed to use
the facility for recreational purposes, LEAs would be equally correct in classifying the
location as 50 = Park/Playground.
Sometimes, agencies can determine the location by the offender’s intent during the
commission of the crime. For example, if the offender chose to commit a robbery during
a church service held at a public facility routinely used for basketball games, agencies
should choose to classify the location as 04 = Church/Synagogue/Temple/Mosque since
the building was being used for a public religious activity at the time the crime was
committed.
Data Value Data Value Includes
01 = Air/Bus/Train Terminal airports; bus, boat, ferry, or train stations
and terminals
02 = Bank/Savings and Loan other financial institutions, whether in a
separate building or inside of another store
Note: This data value does not include
payday lender type businesses.
03 = Bar/Nightclub establishments primarily for entertainment,
dancing, and the consumption of beverages
Data Value Data Value Includes
04 = Church/Synagogue/Temple/Mosque buildings for public religious activities,
meetings, or worship
05 = Commercial/Office Building establishments that pertain to commerce
and trade
06 = Construction Site all buildings/locations that are under some
type of construction
07 = Convenience Store establishments primarily for convenience
shopping, e.g., stores that include the sale
of other items as well as gasoline
08 = Department/Discount Store establishments that are considered
department stores and that sell a wide
range of goods; Target, Wal-Mart, etc.
Note: This data value does not include
shopping malls.
09 = Drug Store/Doctor’s Office/Hospital medical supply companies and buildings;
stores that are primarily considered
pharmacies; veterinary practices, veterinary
hospitals, and medical practices
10 = Field/Woods areas that are primarily open fields or
wooded areas
Note: This data value does not include
parks.
11 = Government/Public Building buildings primarily used for local, state, or
federal offices, or public businesses
12 = Grocery/Supermarket establishments primarily used for buying/
selling food items, etc.
13 = Highway/Road/Alley/Street/Sidewalk open public ways for the passage of
vehicles, people, and animals
Data Value Data Value Includes
14 = Hotel/Motel/Etc. other temporary lodgings
Note: This data value does not include
campgrounds or recreational vehicle parks.
15 = Jail/Prison/Penitentiary/Corrections Facility places for the confinement of persons in
lawful detention or awaiting trial
16 = Lake/Waterway/Beach shorelines, lakes, streams, canals, or bodies
of water other than swimming pools
17 = Liquor Store establishments primarily used for buying/
selling alcoholic beverages
18 = Parking/Drop Lot/Garage areas primarily used for parking motorized
vehicles that are commercial in nature
19 = Rental Storage Facility any mini-storage and/or self-storage
buildings
20 = Residence/Home apartments, condominiums, townhouses,
nursing homes, residential driveways,
residential yards; extended/continuous care
facilities
Note: This data value refers to permanent
residences.
21 = Restaurant any commercial establishments that serve
meals or refreshments; cafeterias
22 = School/College universities
Note: This data value was replaced by the
following new location codes and is to be
used only by LEAs that have not adopted the
new codes:
52 = School – College/University
53 = School – Elementary/Secondary
Data Value Data Value Includes
23 = Service/Gas Station establishments where motor vehicles are
serviced and gasoline, oil, etc., are sold
24 = Specialty Store fur stores, jewelry stores, television stores,
dress shops, and clothing stores, etc.;
payday lender type businesses
25 = Other/Unknown any location that does not fit in one of the
other defined data values or when the
location of the incident is unknown
37 = Abandoned/Condemned Structure buildings or structures which are completed
but have been abandoned by the owner and
are no longer being used
Note: This data value does not include
vacant rental property. LEAs should use the
data value that best describes the property
in question, e.g., vacant rental house should
be classified as 20 = Residence/Home,
vacant convenience store that is for rent
should be classified as 07 = Convenience
Store, etc.
38 = Amusement Park indoor or outdoor, permanent or
temporary, commercial enterprises that
offer rides, games, and other entertainment
39 = Arena/Stadium/Fairgrounds/Coliseum open-air or enclosed amphitheater-type
areas designed and used for the
presentation of sporting events, concerts,
assemblies, etc.
40 = ATM Separate from Bank machines that provide the ability to make
deposits and/or withdrawals using a bank
card; Automated Teller Machine (ATM)
machines located inside a mall or store
Note: LEAs should use 02 = Bank/Savings
and Loan if the ATM is located at a banking
facility.
Data Value Data Value Includes
41 = Auto Dealership New/Used businesses specifically designed for selling
new and used motor vehicles
Note: This data value also includes the
parking lots and garages of these facilities.
42 = Camp/Campground areas used for setting up camps, including
tent and recreational vehicle campsites
44 = Daycare Facility facilities that provide short-term
supervision, recreation, and/or meals for
adults or children during the daytime or at
night; respite care facilities for seniors or for
physically or mentally challenged individuals
45 = Dock/Wharf/Freight/Modal Terminal separate facility with platforms at which
trucks, ships, or trains load or unload cargo
Note: This data value does not include
cargo bays attached to a department store
or shopping mall. LEAs should classify these
as 08 = Department/Discount Store or
55 = Shopping Mall, respectively.
46 = Farm Facility facilities designed for agricultural
production or devoted to the raising and
breeding of animals, areas of water devoted
to aquaculture, and/or all building or
storage structures located there; grain bins
Note: LEAs should classify the house on a
farm as 20 = Residence/Home.
47 = Gambling Facility/Casino/Race Track indoor or outdoor facilities used to legally
bet on the uncertain outcome of games of
chance, contests, and/or races
Data Value Data Value Includes
48 = Industrial Site active manufacturing locations, factories,
mills, plants, etc., specifically designed for
the manufacturing of goods
Note: This data value does not include
abandoned facilities. LEAs should classify
these as 37 = Abandoned/Condemned
Structure.
49 = Military Installation locations specifically designed and used for
military operations
50 = Park/Playground areas of land set aside for public use usually
maintained for recreational or ornamental
purposes; soccer fields, baseball fields
51 = Rest Area designated areas, usually along a highway,
where motorists can stop
52 = School – College/University institutions for the higher education of
individuals, which gives instruction in
specialized fields; community colleges; trade
schools
53 = School – Elementary/Secondary institutions for the instruction of children
from preschool through 12th grade
54 = Shelter – Mission/Homeless establishments that provide temporary
housing for homeless individuals and/or
families; venues set up as temporary
shelters, i.e., a shelter set up in a church or
school during a storm
55 = Shopping Mall indoor or outdoor shopping areas and/or
centers with multiple (two or more) stores
and/or businesses; strip malls
Note: LEAs should use the data value that
best describes the location in question.
Data Value Data Value Includes
56 = Tribal Lands Native American reservations, communities,
and/or trust lands
Note: The FBI UCR Program intends that
non-tribal LEAs will primarily use this data
value. Tribal Agencies should use the data
value that best describes the location in
question.
57 = Community Center public locations where members of a
community gather for group activities, social
activities, public information, and other
purposes; they may sometimes be open for
the whole community or for a specialized
group within the greater community;
Christian community center; Islamic
community center; Jewish community
center; youth clubs, etc.
2.6 Weapon/Force Involved Codes
This category should be used to enter the type(s) of weapon(s) or force used by the offender(s)
in committing the following offenses:
09A Murder and Nonnegligent Manslaughter
09B Negligent Manslaughter
09C Justifiable Homicide
100 Kidnapping/Abduction
11A Rape
11B Sodomy
11C Sexual Assault With an Object
11D Fondling
120 Robbery
13A Aggravated Assault
13B Simple Assault
210 Extortion/Blackmail
520 Weapon Law Violations
If the weapon was an automatic firearm, an “A” should be added as a suffix to its code, e.g.,
13A = Automatic Rifle. An automatic firearm is defined as any firearm which shoots, or is
designed to shoot, more than one shot at a time by a single pull of the trigger without manual
reloading.
There are 17 Cargo Theft weapon/force involved categories. They are listed below in numerical
order. Each entry includes the following information:
• Cargo Theft weapon/force involved code
• Considerations and examples (as appropriate)
Data Value Data Value Includes
11 = Firearm
12 = Handgun
13 = Rifle
14 = Shotgun
15 = Other Firearm
20 = Knife/Cutting Instrument ax, ice pick, screwdriver, or switchblade
30 = Blunt Object club, hammer
35 = Motor Vehicle when used as a weapon
40 = Personal Weapons hands, feet, teeth
50 = Poison
60 = Explosives
65 = Fire/Incendiary Device
70 = Drugs/Narcotics/Sleeping Pills
85 = Asphyxiation drowning, strangulation, suffocation, gas
any weapon or force, including deadly
diseases, not fitting the above specifically
90 = Other coded weapons/force
95 = Unknown
99 = None
2.7 Victim Type Codes
This category should be used to enter the victim type.
Data Value
I = Individual
B = Business
F = Financial Institution
G = Government
R = Religious Organization
S = Society/Public
L = Law Enforcement Officer
O = Other
U = Unknown
2.8 Property Codes
This category should be used to describe the type(s) of property loss, recover, seizure, etc.,
which occurred in an incident involving one or more of the following offenses:
100 Kidnapping/Abduction (Although this is a crime against person, a property
segment is required)
120 Robbery
200 Arson
210 Extortion/Blackmail
220 Burglary/Breaking and Entering
23A Pocket-Picking
23B Purse-Snatching
23C Shoplifting
23D Theft From Building
23E Theft From Coin-Operated Machine or Device
23F Theft From Motor Vehicle
23G Theft of Motor Vehicle Parts or Accessories
23H All Other Larceny
240 Motor Vehicle Theft
250 Counterfeiting/Forgery
26A False Pretenses/Swindle/Confidence Game
26B Credit Card/Automated Teller Machine Fraud
26C Impersonation
26D Welfare Fraud
26E Wire Fraud
26F Identity Theft
26G Hacking/Computer Invasion
270 Embezzlement
280 Stolen Property (Receiving, etc.)
290 Destruction/Damage/Vandalism of Property
35A Drug/Narcotic Violations
35B Drug Equipment Violations
39A Betting/Wagering
39B Operating/Promoting/Assisting Gambling
39C Gambling Equipment Violations
39D Sports Tampering
510 Bribery
Each entry includes the following information:
• Cargo Theft property code
• Considerations and examples (as appropriate)
Data Value Data Value Includes
01 = Aircraft machines or devices capable of atmospheric
flight; airplanes, helicopters, dirigibles,
gliders, ultra-lights, hot air balloons, blimps,
etc.
Note: This data value does not include toy
planes; LEAs should classify these as 19 =
Merchandise or 77 = Other, as appropriate.
02 = Alcohol any intoxicating liquors containing alcohol
used for human consumption; alcoholic
beverages, i.e., beer, wine, and liquor
Note: Denatured alcohol can be classified
as either 45 = Chemicals or 64 = Fuel
depending on how it was used in the
incident. LEAs should classify rubbing
alcohol as 08 = Consumable Goods.
03 = Automobiles any passenger vehicles designed for
operation on ordinary roads and typically
having four wheels and a motor with the
primary purpose of transporting people
other than public transportation; sedans,
taxicabs, minivans, sport-utility vehicles,
limousines, and other similar motor vehicles
04 = Bicycles vehicles usually propelled by pedals,
connected to the wheel by a chain, and have
handlebars for steering and a saddle-like
seat; tandem bicycles, unicycles, and
tricycles
05 = Buses motor vehicles specifically designed, but not
necessarily used, to transport groups of
people on a commercial basis; trolleys,
school/coach/tourist/double-decker buses,
commercial vans, etc.
Data Value Data Value Includes
06 = Clothes/Furs garments for the body, articles of dress,
wearing apparel for human use; accessories
such as belts, shoes, scarves, ties, etc.;
eyewear/glasses, hearing aids, etc.
07 = Computer Hardware/Software electrical components making up a
computer system, written programs/
procedures/rules/associated documentation
pertaining to the operation of a computer
system stored in read/write memory;
computers, printers, storage media, video
games, software packages, video consoles
such as Wii®, PlayStation®, and Xbox®
08 = Consumable Goods expendable items used by humans for
nutrition, enjoyment, or hygiene; food,
non-alcoholic beverages, grooming
products, cigarettes, firewood, etc.
09 = Credit/Debit Cards cards and/or the account number
associated with the cards that function like a
check and through which payments or credit
for purchases or services are made
electronically to the bank accounts of
participating establishments directly from
the cardholders’ accounts; automated teller
machine (ATM) cards, electronic benefit
transfer (EBT) cards
Note: This data value does not include gift
cards; LEAs should classify these as
77 = Other.
10 = Drugs/Narcotics substances such as narcotics or
hallucinogens that affect the central
nervous system causing changes in behavior
and often addiction; prescription, over-the-
counter, legal, and illegal drugs
Data Value Data Value Includes
11 = Drug/Narcotic Equipment unlawful articles, items, products, etc. used
to prepare and consume drugs or narcotics;
glass pipes, bongs, pop cans,
methamphetamine (meth) labs, etc.
12 = Farm Equipment any kind of machinery used on a farm to
conduct farming; tractors, combines, etc.
13 = Firearms weapons that fire a projectile by force of an
explosion; handguns, rifles, shotguns,
assault rifles, semiautomatics, homemade
guns, flare guns, etc.
Note: This data value does not include
“BB,” pellet, or gas-powered guns. LEAs
should classify these as 80 = Weapons –
Other.
14 = Gambling Equipment any equipment or devices used to produce,
manufacture, or perpetrate gambling; slot
machines, keno, card tables, poker chips,
bingo, raffles, lottery tickets, etc.
15 = Heavy Construction/Industrial Equipment large-scale equipment used in the
construction of buildings, roads, etc.;
cranes, bulldozers, steamrollers, oil-drilling
rigs, backhoes, excavators, etc.
16 = Household Goods items normally used to furnish a residence;
furniture, appliances, utensils, air
conditioning/heating equipment, mailboxes,
household lighting, etc.
Note: This data value does not include
radios, televisions, digital video disc (DVD)
or compact disc (CD) players, etc.; LEAs
should classify these as 26 =
Radios/TVs/VCRs/DVD Players and the
media for such devices as
27 = Recordings – Audio/Visual.
Data Value Data Value Includes
17 = Jewelry/Precious Metals/Gems articles made of gold, silver, precious
stones, etc. used for personal adornment;
bracelets, necklaces, rings, watches,
platinum, loose gems, etc.
18 = Livestock domesticated animals raised for home use
or profit; cattle, chickens, hogs, horses,
sheep, bees, household pets such as dogs
and cats if commercially raised for profit,
animals raised and/or used for illegal
gambling, e.g., dogs, roosters, etc.
19 = Merchandise items/goods which are exposed or held for
sale
Note: LEAs should use a more specific data
value whenever possible.
20 = Money any circulating medium of exchange, legal
tender, currency; coins, paper money,
demand deposits, etc.; counterfeited
currency
21 = Negotiable Instruments any documents, other than currency, that
are payable without restriction; an
unconditional promise or order of payment
to a holder upon issue, possession, on
demand, or at a specific time; endorsed
checks (including forged checks that have
been endorsed), endorsed money orders,
endorsed traveler’s checks, bearer checks,
and bearer bonds
22 = Nonnegotiable Instruments documents requiring further action to
become negotiable; unendorsed checks,
money orders, traveler’s checks, stocks,
bonds, blank checks, etc.
Data Value Data Value Includes
23 = Office-type Equipment items normally used in an office/business
setting; calculators, cash registers, copying
machines, facsimile machines, shredders,
etc.
Note: LEAs should use a more specific data
value whenever possible.
24 = Other Motor Vehicles motorized vehicles that do not fit the
definition of automobile, bus, truck, or
recreational vehicle; motorcycles, motor
scooters, trail bikes, mopeds, snowmobiles,
motorized golf carts, motorized wheelchairs,
all-terrain vehicles, go-carts, Segways®, etc.
25 = Purses/Handbags/Wallets bags or pouches used for carrying articles
such as money, credit/debit cards, keys,
photographs, and other miscellaneous
items; briefcases, fanny packs, and
backpacks when used as a purse/wallet
26 = Radios/TVs/VCRs/DVD Players items used to transmit audible signals and
visual images of moving and stationary
objects; high fidelity and stereo equipment,
CD players, MP3 players, cable boxes, etc.
Note: This data value does not include
radios/stereos installed in vehicles; LEAs
should classify these as 38 = Vehicle Parts/
Accessories.
27 = Recordings – Audio/Visual phonograph records or blank or recorded
tapes or discs upon which the user records
sound and/or visual images; CDs, DVDs,
cassettes, VHS tapes, etc.
28 = Recreational Vehicles motor vehicles that are specifically
designed, but not necessarily used, to
transport people and also provide them
temporary lodging for recreational purposes
Data Value Data Value Includes
29 = Structures – Single Occupancy Dwellings buildings occupied by single families,
individuals, or housemates, commonly
referred to as houses, mobile homes,
townhouses, duplexes, etc.
30 = Structures – Other Dwellings any other residential dwellings not meeting
the definition of 29 = Structures – Single
Occupancy Dwellings; apartments,
tenements, flats, boarding houses,
dormitories; temporary living quarters such
as hotels, motels, inns, bed and breakfasts
31 = Structures – Other Commercial/Business buildings designated for or occupied by
enterprises engaged in the buying and
selling of commodities or services,
commercial trade, or forms of gainful
activity that have the objective of supplying
commodities; stores, office buildings,
restaurants, etc.
32 = Structures – Industrial/Manufacturing buildings designated for or occupied by
enterprises engaged in the production or
distribution of goods, refined and unrefined,
for use by industry; factories, plants,
assembly lines, etc.
33 = Structures – Public/Community buildings used by a group of people for
social/cultural/group/recreational activities,
common interests, classes, etc.; colleges,
hospitals, jails, libraries, meeting halls,
passenger terminals, religious buildings,
schools, sports arenas, etc.
34 = Structures – Storage buildings used for storing goods, belongings,
merchandise, etc.; barns, garages,
storehouses, warehouses, sheds, etc.
Data Value Data Value Includes
35 = Structures – Other any other types of structures not fitting the
descriptions of the previous types of
structures listed (i.e., in data values 29
through 34); outbuildings, monuments,
buildings under construction, etc.
36 = Tools hand-held implements that are used in
accomplishing work; hand and power tools
37 = Trucks motor vehicles which are specifically
designed, but not necessarily used, to
transport cargo on a commercial basis, or
vehicles designed for transporting loads
38 = Vehicle Parts/Accessories items attached to the inside or outside of a
vehicle; motor vehicle batteries, engines,
transmissions, heaters, hubcaps, tires,
radios, CD/DVD players, automotive global
positioning system (GPS) navigation
systems, etc.
39 = Watercraft vehicles used in the water, propelled by a
motor, paddle, or sail; motorboats,
sailboats, canoes, fishing boats, jet skis, etc.
41 = Aircraft Parts/Accessories parts or accessories of an aircraft, whether
inside or outside
Note: This data value does not include
aircrafts that are intact or model/toy planes;
LEAs should classify complete aircraft as
01 = Aircraft and model/toy planes as
77 = Other.
42 = Artistic Supplies/Accessories items or equipment used to create or
maintain paintings, sculptures, crafts, etc.;
frames, oil paints, clay
Data Value Data Value Includes
43 = Building Materials items used to construct buildings; lumber,
concrete, gravel, drywall, bricks, plumbing
supplies, uninstalled windows, uninstalled
doors, etc.
Note: This data value does not include
items stolen from a completed building.
LEAs should classify copper wire, aluminum,
etc., as 71 = Metals, Non-Precious.
44 = Camping/Hunting/Fishing Equipment/Supplies items, tools, or objects used for recreational
camping, hunting, or fishing; tents, camp
stoves, fishing poles, sleeping bags, etc.
Note: LEAs should classify rifles, pistols, and
shotguns as 13 = Firearms.
45 = Chemicals substances with distinct molecular
compositions that are produced by or used
in chemical processes; herbicides, paint
thinner, insecticides, industrial or household
products, solvents, fertilizers, lime, mineral
oil, antifreeze, etc.
Note: LEAs should classify chemicals used in
conjunction with illegal drug activity as
10 = Drugs/Narcotics or 11 = Drug/Narcotic
Equipment, as appropriate.
46 = Collections/Collectibles objects that are collected because they
arouse interest due to being novel, rare,
bizarre, or valuable; art objects, stamp/
baseball/comic book collections
Note: LEAs should use a more specific data
value whenever possible. For example, a
collection of old guns should be classified as
13 = Firearms.
Data Value Data Value Includes
47 = Crops cultivated plants or agricultural produce
grown for commercial, human, or livestock
consumption and use that is usually sold in
bulk; grains, fruits, vegetables, tobacco,
cotton
Note: This data value does not include
crops that yield illegal substances. LEAs
should classify crops used in conjunction
with illegal drug activity as 10 = Drugs/
Narcotics or 11 = Drug/Narcotic Equipment,
as appropriate.
48 = Documents/Personal or Business includes affidavits, applications, certificates,
credit card documents, savings account
books, titles, deposit slips, pawn shop slips,
patents, blueprints, bids, proposals,
personal files, and U.S. mail
Note: This data value does not include
identity documents.
49 = Explosives devices that explode or cause an explosion;
bombs, dynamite, Molotov cocktails,
fireworks, ammunition, etc.
59 = Firearm Accessories items used in conjunction with a firearm to
improve ease of use or maintenance; gun
belts, cases, cleaning tools/equipment,
targets, aftermarket stocks, laser sights,
rifle/spotting/handgun scopes
64 = Fuel products used to produce energy; coal,
gasoline, diesel, biodiesel, natural gas, oil
65 = Identity Documents formal documents and/or their numbers
that provide proof pertaining to a specific
individual’s identity; passports, visas,
driver’s licenses, social security cards, alien
registration cards, voter registration cards,
etc.
Data Value Data Value Includes
66 = Identity – Intangible sets of characteristics or behavioral or
personal traits by which an entity or person
is recognized or known; damaged
reputation, disclosed confidential
information, etc.
67 = Law Enforcement Equipment anything specifically used by law
enforcement personnel during the
performance of their official duties; vests,
uniforms, handcuffs, flashlights, nightsticks,
badges, etc.; canines (K-9s), horses, etc.
Note: This data value does not include
firearms. LEAs should classify firearms as
13 = Firearms and should select the most
appropriate motor vehicle or other mobile
property data value when applicable, e.g.,
01 = Aircraft, 39 = Watercraft, 24 = Other
Motor Vehicles.
68 = Lawn/Yard/Garden Equipment equipment used for maintaining and
decorating lawns and yards; mowers, line
trimmers, tools, tillers, etc.
Note: This data value does not include
plants, trees, fountains, bird baths, etc.
69 = Logging Equipment equipment specifically used by logging
industry personnel during the performance
of their duties; choker cables, binders,
blocks, etc.
70 = Medical/Medical Lab Equipment equipment specifically used in the medical
field; X-ray machines, testing equipment,
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
machines, ultrasound machines,
wheelchairs, stethoscopes, etc.
Data Value Data Value Includes
71 = Metals, Non-Precious base metals or alloys possessing luster,
malleability, ductility, and conductivity of
electricity and heat; ferrous and non-ferrous
metals such as iron, steel, tin, aluminum,
copper, brass, copper wire, copper pipe, etc.
72 = Musical Instruments instruments relating to or capable of
producing music; percussion, brass,
woodwind, and string instruments, etc.;
guitar strings, picks, drum sticks, etc.
73 = Pets animals kept for pleasure or companionship,
other than livestock; dogs, household birds,
fish, rodents, reptiles, and exotic animals
raised as pets and not for profit
74 = Photographic/Optical Equipment equipment used to take photographs and/or
relating to the science of optics or optical
equipment; cameras, camcorders,
telescopes, lenses, prisms, optical scanners,
binoculars, monoculars, etc.
Note: This data value does not include
camera phones. LEAs should classify these
as 75 = Portable Electronic Communications.
75 = Portable Electronic Communications electronic devices used to communicate
audible or visual messages; cell phones,
camera phones, pagers, personal digital
assistants (PDAs), BlackBerrys®, Gameboy®,
iPads®, iPods®, Kindles®, Nooks®, etc.
76 = Recreational/Sports Equipment equipment and materials used for
recreational purposes, or during sports
activities; skis, balls, gloves, weights, nets,
bats, rackets, team uniforms, etc.
77 = Other all other property not fitting the specific
descriptions of the data values identified
Data Value Data Value Includes
78 = Trailers transportation devices designed to be
hauled by a motor vehicle; truck trailers,
semi-trailers, utility trailers, farm trailers,
etc.
79 = Watercraft Equipment/Parts/Accessories watercraft equipment or accessories that
are used for the crafts’ maintenance or
operation; buoys, life preservers, paddles,
sails
Note: This data value does not include
accessories for water sports. LEAs should
classify these as 76 = Recreational/Sports
Equipment.
80 = Weapons – Other weapons not classified under other
categories; knives, swords, nunchakus, brass
knuckles, crossbows, bows and arrows,
pepper spray, tasers, sling shots, “BB” guns,
pellet guns, gas-powered guns, paintball
guns, etc.
88 = Pending Inventory items whose property description is
unknown until an inventory is conducted
99 = (blank) this data value is a special data value used at
the discretion of the FBI’s UCR Program to
compile statistics on certain designated
types of property, which are the object of
theft fads; it is not currently used
3 Submissions
Cargo Theft statistical reporting data may be submitted to the FBI via: (1) the NIBRS, (2) Cargo
Theft Incident Report, or (3) Cargo Theft Technical Specification.
3.1 NIBRS
The FBI’s UCR Program adopted a new data element, 2A Cargo Theft, within the Administrative
Segment of the NIBRS in order to flag the incident as a Cargo Theft. In addition, this data
element is mandatory for specific crimes against property, which are applicable to Cargo Theft.
Participating agencies should note implementation of the new NIBRS data element must be
consistent among all reporting agencies within a state. Therefore, either all or none of the
agencies that report NIBRS data within a state must report cargo theft data via the new NIBRS data
element.
This section furnishes information regarding the submission of cargo theft data into the NIBRS. The
following excerpts on Cargo Theft can be found in the NIBRS Technical Specification.
3.1.1 Data Elements and Data Values
Data Elements are data fields used in NIBRS to describe the details of each component of a
crime, i.e., victims, offenders, arrestees, and circumstances.
For example, Data Element 2A Cargo Theft – 1 character (Y=Yes or N=No; enter only one):
This data element is to be used to indicate whether or not the incident involved a cargo
theft. This data element can only be entered when the incident has at least one of the 13
offenses listed under 2.2.1 Group A Cargo Theft Offenses.
Data Values are the specific codes that can be entered into a data element. Data values are
codes from an approved list, each followed by an equal sign (=) and a description of the data
value.
For example, for Data Element 3 (Incident Date), the specific format for the data value is
YYYYMMDD. For Data Element 27 (Sex of Victim), agencies may enter one of the codes M =
Male, F = Female, or U = Unknown to describe the gender of the victim; but for Data
Element 48 (Sex of Arrestee), agencies can enter only M = Male or F = Female to describe the
gender of the arrestee.
3.2 Cargo Theft Incident Report
The Cargo Theft Incident Report is separate from and in addition to the routine SRS submission.
Reporting agencies must remember that the Hierarchy Rule does not apply when reporting a cargo
theft. If a cargo theft occurs in a multiple-offense incident, the reporting LEA must first report the
Cargo Theft-related offense and then up to an additional four offense(s). It should also be noted
reporting attempts to commit cargo theft is not applicable to this data collection. Agencies that
submit data to the FBI’s UCR Program via the SRS should report incidents of cargo theft on the Cargo
Theft Incident Report via a Microsoft Excel worksheet.
3.3 Cargo Theft Technical Specifications
The FBI UCR staff prepared the Cargo Theft Technical Specification, available electronically at
<www.fbi.gov>, to provide the technical requirements for submitting cargo theft data in an
electronic format. NIBRS states not able to make the programming changes to their RMS could
adopt this submission method.
4 Scenarios of Cargo Theft
In each of the following scenarios, it shall be assumed that all cargo is moving in commerce, i.e.,
commercial shipment and in the supply chain, at all points between the point of origin and the final
destination (exchange bill of lading), regardless of any temporary stop while awaiting transshipment
or otherwise.
Scenario 1: An armed suspect hijacked an 18-wheeler and kidnapped the driver (UCR
Offense Codes 100 Kidnapping/Abduction and 120 Robbery). The suspect then transferred
the stolen cargo to another trailer.
Scenario 2: Four men wearing ski masks conducted armed robbery at a trucking facility
(UCR Offense Code 120 Robbery). Two of the men held the guards at gunpoint while the
other two men jumped into an idling truck nearby and drove off with the cargo.
Scenario 3: A suspect was employed at a wholesale tobacco warehouse. After hours, the
employee gained entry into the warehouse and removed 4,000 cartons of cigarettes (UCR
Offense Code 220 Burglary). The inventory was slated for shipment to local retailers.
Scenario 4: A delivery driver stopped at a truck stop for a short break and exited, leaving
the vehicle unattended. A short time later, the driver returned to the vehicle and
discovered the cargo missing from the box truck (UCR Offense Code 23F Theft From Motor
Vehicle).
Scenario 5: Unknown suspects entered the terminal grounds of Carrier XYZ by cutting a section
of fence. The suspects then broke into a loaded unattached trailer and removed the cargo
(UCR Offense Code 23H All Other Larceny).
Scenario 6: The driver of an 18-wheeler accepted a bribe to “look the other way” (UCR
Offense Code 510 Bribery) while his load of cargo was being “stolen” (UCR Offense Code 23F
Larceny From a Motor Vehicle).
Scenario 7: Two individuals worked for Company Y, loading and unloading cargo.
Employee A discovered that Employee B was using drugs on the job. Employee A
threatened to reveal his drug use to their employer. As payment for keeping silent,
Employee A demanded a partial shipment of plasma TVs (UCR Offense Code 210
Extortion/Blackmail).
Scenario 8: The owner/driver of a tractor trailer stopped at a post office to check his
mail, leaving the vehicle running and unlocked. When he returned, both the rig and
cargo were gone (UCR Offense Code 240 Motor Vehicle Theft).
Scenario 9: An air cargo worker stole a shipment of military supplies from an all-cargo
aircraft, which was scheduled for delivery to military personnel oversees (UCR Offense
Code 270 Embezzlement).
Scenario 10: A man, posing as an indirect air carrier employee (UCR Offense Code 26C
Impersonation) picked up a truck and trailer from a consolidation facility, which was
slated for delivery to an airport sorting center (UCR Offense Code 240 Motor Vehicle
Theft).
Scenario 11: Five suspects entered a slow-moving freight train, which was transporting
cargo from the freight yard to numerous destinations. The suspects used various tools to
break into the shipping containers. The merchandise was then thrown off the train
and accomplices on the ground gathered the stolen merchandise (UCR Offense Code
220 Burglary/Breaking and Entering).
Scenario 12: A suspect worked on the dock at a port facility, loading and unloading
cargo containers. After hours, the suspect entered the shipping yard and stole a chassis
and intermodal container loaded with automobile tires (UCR Offense Code 23H All
Other Larceny).
Scenario 13: An employee used the Internet to gain unauthorized access to the
shipping records for Company ABC (UCR Offense Code 270 Embezzlement). The
employee then obtained corporate credit card information and pre-paid the freight fees
for a shipment of imported wines (UCR Offense Code 26B Credit Card/Automated Teller
Machine Fraud). Via computer, the suspect illegally diverted the shipment to an
alternate address (UCR Offense Code 26E Wire Fraud).
5 Scenarios of Incidents Not Meeting Cargo Theft Guidelines
The following scenarios do not meet Cargo Theft guidelines because these shipments are no
longer a “commercial shipment” or “in the supply chain.”
Scenario 1: A letter carrier was delivering mail in a neighborhood when the mail was
stolen from the carrier’s vehicle. Once the U.S. mail left a final distribution point, it is no
longer considered cargo because it is no longer in the supply chain. The agency should
report the incident as a Theft From a Motor Vehicle (UCR Offense Code 23F Theft From
a Motor Vehicle), but the incident is not considered a cargo theft. Data Element 2A
should be N=No.
Scenario 2: During a delivery of a refrigerator for installation to an individual’s home,
the driver of the truck was carjacked while stopped at a traffic light. The agency should
report the incident as a Robbery (UCR Offense Code 120 Robbery), but the incident is
not considered a cargo theft because the refrigerator is not in the supply chain. Data
Element 2A should be N=No.
6 Quality Assurance Review (QAR) Process
The QAR is a value-added service of the CJIS Audit Unit designed to augment the FBI’s UCR
Program by providing a mechanism to assess the performance of UCR Programs and to validate
the quality of the data that is submitted to the FBI UCR Program. The QAR focuses on
performance based UCR standards. Specifically, the QAR is designed to ensure that UCR
Programs conform to the FBI’s UCR Program’s submission standards, definitions, and
specifications; establish data integrity procedures; and assist contributing agencies in quality
assurance practices. The national QAR assesses NIBRS and SRS reporting methods. QAR
participation is voluntary. However, the FBI’s UCR Program strongly encourages participation
in order to improve the accuracy of the crime statistics in the United States.
7 APPENDIX A – Legislation
H.R. 3199 – USA Patriot Improvement and Re-authorization Act of 2005
§ [Sec. 308] (a) Theft of Interstate or Foreign Shipments. – Section 659 of title 18, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) In the first undesignated paragraph—
(a) by inserting “trailer,” after “motortruck,”;
(b) by inserting “air cargo container,” after “aircraft,”; and
(c) by inserting “, or from any intermodal container, trailer, container freight station,
warehouse, or freight consolidation facility,” after “air navigation facility”;
(2) In the fifth undesignated paragraph, by striking “in each case” and all that follows
through “or both” the second place it appears and inserting “be fined under this title
or imprisoned not more than 15 years, or both, but if the amount or value of such
money, baggage, goods, or chattels is less than $1,000, shall be fined under this title
or imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or both “; and
(3) By inserting after the first sentence in the eighth undesignated paragraph the
following: “For purposes of this section, goods and chattel shall be construed to be
moving as an interstate or foreign shipment at all points between the point of origin
and the final destination (as evidenced by the waybill or other shipping document of
the shipment), regardless of any temporary stop while awaiting transshipment or
otherwise.”.
(b) Stolen Vessels.—
(1) In General.—Section 2311 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end of the following: “ ‘vessel’ means any watercraft or other contrivance used
or designed for transportation or navigation on, under, or immediately above,
water.”.
(2) Transportation and Sale of Stolen Vessels.—
(A) Transportation.—Section 2312 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(i) by striking “motor vehicle or aircraft” and inserting “motor vehicle, vessel or
aircraft”; and
(ii) by striking “10 years” and inserting “15 years”.
(B) ) Sale.—Section 2313(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(i) by striking “motor vehicle or air craft” and inserting “motor vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft”; and
(ii) by striking “10 years” and inserting “15 years”.
(C) Review of Sentencing Guidelines.—Pursuant to section 994 of title 28, United
States Code, the United States Sentencing Commission shall review the Federal
Sentencing Guidelines to determine whether sentencing enhancement is
appropriate for any offense under section 659 or 2311 of title 18, United States
Code, as amended by this title.
(D) Annual Report of Law Enforcement Activities.—The Attorney General shall
annually submit to Congress a report, which shall include an evaluation of law
enforcement activities relating to the investigation and prosecution of offenses under section
659 of title 18, United States Code, as amended by this title.
Reporting of Cargo Theft.—The Attorney General shall take the steps necessary to ensure that
reports of cargo theft collected by Federal, State, and local officials are reflected as a separate
category in the Uniform Crime Reporting System, or any successor system, by no later than
December 31, 2006.
8 APPENDIX C – Submitting Cargo Theft Data to the FBI’s UCR Program
There are three methods for reporting cargo theft data to the FBI’s UCR Program: the Cargo
Theft Data Element 2A in the Administrative Segment of NIBRS, the Cargo Theft Incident
Report via the Microsoft Excel worksheet, and the Cargo Theft Technical Specification.
The Cargo Theft offense crime categories and all UCR Offense categories are listed below in
numerical order. Following the name of each crime is the UCR Offense Code. See Appendix D,
UCR offense definitions for more information about a specific UCR offense.
Cargo Theft Offenses
UCR
Offense Offense
Code
Robbery 120
Extortion/Blackmail 210
Burglary/Breaking & Entering 220
Larceny/Theft Offenses
Theft From Building 23D
Theft From Motor Vehicle 23F
All Other Larceny 23H
Motor Vehicle Theft 240
Fraud Offenses
False Pretenses/Swindle/Confidence Game 26A
Credit Card/Automatic Teller Machine Fraud 26B
Impersonation 26C
Wire Fraud 26E
Embezzlement 270
Bribery 510
UCR Offenses
UCR
Offense Offense
Code
Homicide Offenses
Murder and Nonnegligent Manslaughter 09A
Negligent Manslaughter 09B
Kidnapping/Abduction 100
Sex Offenses
Rape 11A
UCR
Offense Offens
e Code
Sodomy 11B
Sexual Assault with an Object 11C
Fondling 11D
Incest 36A
Statutory Rape 36B
Assault Offenses
Aggravated Assault 13A
Simple Assault 13B
Intimidation 13C
Robbery 120
Arson 200
Extortion/Blackmail 210
Burglary/Breaking & Entering 220
Larceny/Theft Offenses
Pocket-Picking 23A
Purse-snatching 23B
Shoplifting 23C
Theft From Building 23D
Theft From Motor Vehicle 23F
Theft From Motor Vehicle Parts or Accessories 23G
All Other Larceny 23H
Motor Vehicle Theft 240
Counterfeiting 250
Fraud Offenses
False Pretenses/Swindle/Confidence Game 26A
Credit Card/Automated Teller Machine Fraud 26B
Impersonation 26C
Welfare Fraud 26D
Wire Fraud 26E
Identity Theft 26F
Hacking/Computer Invasion 26G
Embezzlement 270
Stolen Property Offenses 280
Destruction/Damage/Vandalism of Property 290
Drug/Narcotic Offenses
Drug/Narcotic Violations 35A
UCR
Offense Offense
Code
Drug Equipment Violations 35B
Pornography/Obscene Material 370
Gambling Offenses
Betting/Wagering 39A
Operating/Promoting/Assisting Gambling 39B
Gambling Equipment Violations 39C
Sports Tampering 39D
Prostitution Offenses
Prostitution 40A
Assisting or Promoting Prostitution 40B
Purchasing Prostitution 40C
Bribery 510
Weapon Law Violations 520
Human Trafficking
Human Trafficking – Commercial Sex Acts 64A
Human Trafficking – Involuntary Servitude 64B
9 APPENDIX D – UCR Offense Definitions
UCR OFFENSES
There are 47 offense categories. The offense categories are listed below in numerical order.
Each entry includes the following information:
3.1 UCR offense code, offense name
3.2 Definition
3.3 Considerations and examples (as appropriate)
09A-09B HOMICIDE OFFENSES
The killing of one human being by another.
09A Murder and Nonnegligent Manslaughter
The willful (nonnegligent) killing of one human being by another.
09B Negligent Manslaughter
The killing of another person through negligence.
100 Kidnapping/Abduction
The unlawful seizure, transportation, and/or detention of a person against his/her will or of a
minor without the consent of his/her custodial parent(s) or legal guardian.
Kidnapping/Abduction includes hostage-taking.
11A – 11D Sex Offenses
Any sexual act directed against another person, without the consent of the victim, including
instances where the victim is incapable of giving consent.
11A Rape (except Statutory Rape)
The carnal knowledge of a person, without the consent of the victim, including instances
where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of his/her age or because of his/her
temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity.
Agencies should classify the crime as rape, regardless of the age of the victim, if the victim did
offender did not force of threaten the victim, and the victim was under the statutory age of
consent, agencies should classify the crime as statutory rape.
This offense includes the rape of both males and females as long as at least one of the
offenders is the opposite sex of the victim. Black’s Law Dictionary, 6th ed., defines carnal
knowledge as “the act of a man having sexual bodily connections with a woman; sexual
intercourse.” There is carnal knowledge if there is the slightest penetration of the sexual organ
of the female (vagina) by the sexual organ of the male (penis).
In cases where several offenders rape one person, the responding agency should count one
Rape (for one victim) and report separate offender information for each offender.
11B Sodomy
Oral or anal sexual intercourse with another person, without the consent of the victim,
including instances where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of his/her age or
because of his/her temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity.
If the offender both raped and sodomized the victim in one incident, then LEAs should report
both offenses.
11C Sexual Assault With An Object
To use an object or instrument to unlawfully penetrate, however slightly, the genital or anal
opening of the body of another person, without the consent of the victim, including instances
where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of his/her age or because of his/her
temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity.
An “object” or “instrument” is anything used by the offender other than the offender’s
genitalia, e.g., a finger, bottle, handgun, stick.
11D Fondling
The touching of the private body parts of another person for the purpose of sexual
gratification, without the consent of the victim, including instances where the victim is
incapable of giving consent because of his/her age or because of his/her temporary or
permanent mental or physical incapacity.
Because there is no penetration in fondling, this offense will not convert to the SRS as Rape.
36A – 36B Sex Offenses, Nonforcible
Unlawful, nonforcible sexual intercourse.
36A Incest
Nonforcible sexual intercourse between persons who are related to each other within the
degrees wherein marriage is prohibited by law.
36B Statutory Rape
Nonforcible sexual intercourse with a person who is under the statutory age of consent.
If the offender used or threatened the use of force or the victim was incapable of giving
consent because of his/her youth or mental impairment, either temporary or permanent, law
enforcement should classify the offense as Rape, not Statutory Rape.
13A − 13C ASSAULT OFFENSES
An unlawful attack by one person upon another.
Careful consideration of the following factors should assist in classifying assaults:
1. The type of weapon employed or the use of an object as a weapon.
2. The seriousness of the injury.
3. The intent and capability of the assailant to cause serious injury.
Usually, the weapons used or the extent of the injury sustained will be the deciding factors in
distinguishing aggravated from simple assault. In only a very limited number of instances
should it be necessary to examine the intent and capability of the assailant. Prosecution policy
in a jurisdiction should not influence classification or reporting of law enforcement offense
data. Reporting agencies should examine and classify the assaults in their respective
jurisdictions according to the standard UCR definitions, regardless of whether the offenses are
termed felonies by local definitions.
By definition there can be no attempted assaults, only completed assaults. Therefore, reporting
agencies must enter the data value of C = Completed into Data Element 7 (Offense Attempted/
Completed) for all Assault Offenses.
13A Aggravated Assault
An unlawful attack by one person upon another wherein the offender uses a weapon or
displays it in a threatening manner, or the victim suffers obvious severe or aggravated bodily
injury involving apparent broken bones, loss of teeth, possible internal injury, severe
laceration, or loss of consciousness.
In the definition above, a weapon is a commonly known weapon (a gun, knife, club, etc.) or any
other item that, although not usually thought of as a weapon, becomes one when used in a
manner that could cause the types of severe bodily injury described. For Cargo Theft purposes,
mace and pepper spray are considered to be weapons. A severe laceration is one that should
receive medical attention. A loss of consciousness must be the direct result of force inflicted on
the victim by the offender.
Aggravated Assault includes assault with disease (as in cases when the offender is aware that
he/she is infected with a deadly disease and deliberately attempts to inflict the disease by
biting, spitting, etc.), assaults or attempts to kill or murder, poisoning, assault with a dangerous
or deadly weapon, maiming, mayhem, and assault with explosives. In addition, this offense
usually includes offenses such as Pointing and Presenting a Firearm, Brandishing a Firearm, etc.
Though an agency may, on occasion, charge assailants with assault and battery or simple
assault when a knife, gun, or other weapon was used in the incident, the agency should classify
this type of assault as aggravated for UCR purposes. It is not necessary that injury result from
an aggravated assault when an offender uses a gun, knife, or other weapon that could cause
serious personal injury.
The agency should enter the type of weapon or force involved with an Aggravated Assault in
Data Element 13 (Type Weapon/Force Involved); it should also enter the circumstances in Data
Element 31 (Aggravated Assault/Homicide Circumstances).
13B Simple Assault
An unlawful physical attack by one person upon another where neither the offender displays
a weapon, nor the victim suffers obvious severe or aggravated bodily injury involving
apparent broken bones, loss of teeth, possible internal injury, severe laceration, or loss of
consciousness.
Simple Assault includes offenses such as minor assault, hazing, assault and battery, and injury
caused by culpable negligence.
13C Intimidation
To unlawfully place another person in reasonable fear of bodily harm through the use of
threatening words and/or other conduct but without displaying a weapon or subjecting the
victim to actual physical attack.
This offense includes stalking. In addition, the threats associated with intimidation can be
made in person, over the telephone, or in writing.
120 Robbery
The taking or attempting to take anything of value under confrontational circumstances from
the control, custody, or care of another person by force or threat of force or violence and/or
putting the victim in fear of immediate harm.
Because some type of assault is an element of the crime of Robbery, an assault should not be
reported as a separate crime as long as it was performed in furtherance of the robbery.
However, if the injury results in death, a Homicide Offense must also be reported.
The victims of a robbery include not only those persons and other entities (businesses, financial
institutions, etc.) from whom property was taken, but also those persons toward whom the
robber(s) directed force or threat of force in perpetrating the offense. Therefore, although the
primary victim in a bank robbery would be the Financial Institution, the teller toward whom the
robber pointed a gun and made a demand should also be reported as a victim. Carjackings are
Robbery offenses in which a motor vehicle is taken through force or threat of force. Report
only a Robbery not a Motor Vehicle Theft.
200 Arson
To unlawfully and intentionally damage or attempt to damage any real or personal property
by fire or incendiary device.
An agency should report only fires determined through investigation to have been unlawfully
and intentionally set. Though the agency should include attempts to burn, it should not
include fires of suspicious or unknown origin. In addition, an agency should report one
incident for each distinct arson operation originating within its jurisdiction. If a fire started by
arson in one jurisdiction spreads to another jurisdiction and destroys property, the agency in
which the fire was started should report the incident.
Incidents in which persons are killed as a direct result of arson require that agencies report both
the Homicide and the Arson. Similarly, an agency should report the number of persons injured
during an arson as an assault in addition to the arson. Arson-related deaths and injuries of
police officers and firefighters, unless determined as willful murders or assaults, are excluded
from the FBI’s UCR Program due to the hazardous nature of these professions.
The type of property burned is to be entered into Data Element 15 (Property Description). The
value of property burned is reported in Data Element 16 (Value of Property) and should include
incidental damage resulting from fighting the fire.
210 Extortion/Blackmail
To unlawfully obtain money, property, or any other thing of value, either tangible or
intangible, through the use or threat of force, misuse of authority, threat of criminal
prosecution, threat of destruction of reputation or social standing, or through other coercive
means.
220 Burglary/Breaking & Entering
The unlawful entry into a building or other structure with the intent to commit a felony or a
theft.
A forced entry is where force of any degree or a mechanical contrivance of any kind (e.g., a
passkey or skeleton key) is used to unlawfully enter a building or other structure. An unforced
entry is one where the unlawful entry is achieved without force through an unlocked door or
window.
23A-23H Larceny-Theft Offenses
The unlawful taking, carrying, leading, or riding away of property from the possession or
constructive possession of another person.
23A Pocket-picking
The theft of articles from another person’s physical possession by stealth where the victim
usually does not become immediately aware of the theft.
23B Purse-snatching
The grabbing or snatching of a purse, handbag, etc., from the physical possession of another
person.
If more force was used than actually necessary to wrench the purse from the grasp of the
person, then a strong-arm Robbery occurred rather than Purse-snatching.
23C Shoplifting
The theft by someone other than an employee of the victim of goods or merchandise exposed
for sale.
23D Theft From a Building
A theft from within a building which is either open to the general public or to which the
offender has legal access.
23E Theft From Coin-Operated Machine or Device
A theft from a machine or device that is operated or activated by the use of coins.
23F Theft From Motor Vehicle
The theft or articles from a motor vehicle, locked or unlocked.
23G Theft of Motor Vehicle Parts or Accessories
The theft of any part or accessory affixed to the interior or exterior of a motor vehicle in a
manner which would make the item an attachment of the vehicle or necessary for its
operation.
23H All Other Larceny
All thefts that do not fit any of the definitions of the specific categories of Larceny/Theft
listed above.
240 Motor Vehicle Theft
The theft of a motor vehicle.
A motor vehicle is a self-propelled vehicle that runs on the surface of land and not on rails and
that fits one of the following property descriptions:
Automobiles – sedans, coupes, station wagons, convertibles taxicabs, sport utility
vehicles, or other similar motor vehicles that serve the primary purpose of transporting
people.
Buses – motor vehicles that are specifically designed (but not necessarily used) to
transport groups of people on a commercial basis.
Recreational Vehicles – motor vehicles that are specifically designed (but not
necessarily used) to transport people and also provide them temporary lodging for
recreational purposes.
Trucks – motor vehicles that are specifically designed (but not necessarily used) to
transport cargo.
Other Motor Vehicles – any other motor vehicles, e.g., motorcycles, motor scooters,
trail bikes, mopeds, snowmobiles, or golf carts.
250 Counterfeiting
The altering, copying, or imitation of something, without authority or right, with the intent to
deceive or defraud by passing the copy or thing altered or imitated as that which is original or
genuine or the selling, buying, or possession of an altered, copied, or imitated thing with the
intent to deceive or defraud.
26A – 26G Fraud Offenses
The intentional perversion of the truth for the purpose of inducing another person or other
entity in reliance upon it to part with something of value or to surrender a legal right.
The most specific subcategory of fraud should be reported whenever the circumstances fit the
definition of more than one of the subcategories listed below. For example, most frauds would
fit the definition of False Pretenses/Swindle/Confidence Game. But if a credit card was used to
perpetrate the fraud, the offense would be classified as Credit Card/Automated Teller Machine
Fraud.
26A False Pretenses/Swindle/Confidence Game
The intentional misrepresentation of existing fact or condition or the use of some other
deceptive scheme or device to obtain money, goods, or other things of value.
26B Credit Card/Automated Teller Machine Fraud
The unlawful use of a credit (or debit) card or automated teller machine for fraudulent
purposes.
26C Impersonation
Falsely representing one’s identity or position and acting in the character or position thus
unlawfully assumed to deceive others and thereby gain a profit or advantage, enjoy some
right or privilege, or subject another person or entity to an expense, charge, or liability that
would not have otherwise been incurred.
26D Welfare Fraud
The use of deceitful statements, practices, or devices to unlawfully obtain welfare benefits.
26E Wire Fraud
The use of an electric or electronic communications facility to intentionally transmit a false
and/or deceptive message in furtherance of a fraudulent activity.
26F Identity Theft
Wrongfully obtaining and using another person’s personal data (e.g., name, date of birth,
Social Security number, driver’s license number).
This offense includes opening a credit card, bank account, etc. using a person’s information. This
offense should not be confused with Impersonation (26C) (falsely acting in the character or position to
unlawfully deceive others to gain a profit or advantage; when impersonating another person, the
offender would not be in possession of another person’s personal data).
26G Hacking/Computer Invasion
Wrongfully gaining access to another person’s or institution’s computer software, hardware,
or networks without authorized permissions or security clearances.
270 Embezzlement
The unlawful misappropriation by an offender to his/her own use or purpose of money,
property, or some other thing of value entrusted to his/her care, custody, or control.
280 Stolen Property Offenses
Receiving, buying, selling, possessing, concealing, or transporting any property with the
knowledge that it has been unlawfully taken, as by Burglary, Embezzlement, Fraud, Larceny,
Robbery, etc.
290 Destruction/Damage/Vandalism of Property
To willfully or maliciously destroy, damage, deface, or otherwise injure real or personal
property without the consent of the owner or the person having custody or control of it.
This offense is to be reported only if the reporting agency deems that substantial injury to
property has occurred. The offense includes a broad range of injury to property, e.g., from
deliberate, extensive destruction of property at one extreme to mischievous, less extensive
damage at the other extreme. It does not include destruction or damage to property caused by
the crime of Arson.
Incidental damage resulting from another offense (e.g., Burglary or Robbery) is to be reported in
this offense category only if the reporting agency deems the amount of damage to be
substantial. For example, insubstantial damage, such as a broken window or forced door,
should not be reported, but substantial damage, such as major structural damage caused by a
truck backing into a storefront to gain admittance, should be reported. For the crime of Arson,
however, incidental damage resulting from fighting the fire should be included as part of the
loss caused by burning. The determination of whether the damage was substantial is left to the
discretion of the reporting LEA and should not require burdensome damage assessments.
35A and 35B Drug/Narcotic Offenses (Except Driving Under the Influence)
The violation of laws prohibiting the production, distribution, and/or use of certain controlled
substances and the equipment or devices utilized in their preparation and/or use.
35A Drug/Narcotic Violations
The unlawful cultivation, manufacture, distribution, sale, purchase, use, possession,
transportation, or importation of any controlled drug or narcotic substance.
35B Drug Equipment Violations
The unlawful manufacture, sale, purchase, possession, or transportation of equipment of
devices utilized in preparing and/or using drugs or narcotics.
370 Pornography/Obscene Material
The violation of laws or ordinances prohibiting the manufacture, publishing, sale, purchase,
or possession of sexually explicit material, e.g., literature or photographs.
39A-39D Gambling Offenses
To unlawfully bet or wager money or something else of value; assist, promote, or operate a
game of chance for money or some other stake; possess or transmit wagering information;
manufacture, sell, purchase, possess, or transport gambling equipment, devices, or goods; or
tamper with the outcome of a sporting event or contest to gain a gambling advantage.
39A Betting/Wagering
To unlawfully stake money or something else of value on the happening of an uncertain
event or on the ascertainment of a fact in dispute.
39B Operating/Promoting/Assisting Gambling
To unlawfully operate, promote, or assist in the operation of a game of chance, lottery, or
other gambling activity.
This offense includes bookmaking, numbers running, transmitting wagering information, etc.
Version 3.0, 4/07/2023
39C Gambling Equipment Violations
To unlawfully manufacture, sell, buy, possess, or transport equipment, devices, and/or goods
used for gambling purposes.
39D Sports Tampering
To unlawfully alter, meddle in, or otherwise interfere with a sporting contest or event for the
purpose of gaining a gambling advantage.
40A – 40C Prostitution Offenses
To unlawfully engage in or promote sexual activities for anything of value.
40A Prostitution
To engage in commercial sex acts for anything of value.
This offense involves prostitution by both males and females.
40B Assisting or Promoting Prostitution
To solicit customers or transport persons for prostitution purposes; to own, manage, or
operate a dwelling or other establishment for the purpose of providing a place where
prostitution is performed; or to otherwise assist or promote prostitution.
40C Purchasing Prostitution
To purchase or trade anything of value for commercial sex acts.
510 Bribery
The offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting of anything of value (e.g., a bribe, gratuity, or
kickback) to sway the judgment or action of a person in a position of trust or influence.
If the bribery involves changing the outcome of a sporting contest or event, it should be
reported under Gambling Offenses as Sports Tampering, not Bribery.
520 Weapon Law Violations
The violation of laws or ordinances prohibiting the manufacture, sale, purchase,
transportation, possession, concealment, or use of firearms, cutting instruments, explosives,
incendiary devices, or other deadly weapons.
Version 3.0, 4/07/2023
64A and 64B Human Trafficking
The inducement of a person to perform a commercial sex act, or labor, or services, through
force, fraud, or coercion. Human trafficking has also occurred if a person under 18 years of
age has been induced, or enticed, regardless of force, fraud, or coercion, to perform a
commercial sex act.
64A Commercial Sex Acts
Inducing a person by force, fraud, or coercion to participate in commercial sex acts, or in
which the person induced to perform such act(s) has not attained 18 years of age.
64B Involuntary Servitude
The obtaining of a person(s) through recruitment, harboring, transportation, or provision, and
subjecting such persons by force, fraud, or coercion into involuntary servitude, peonage, debt
bondage, or slavery (not to include commercial sex acts).
Version 3.0, 4/07/2023
10 APPENDIX E – Contact the FBI UCR Program
To request information about: Contact:
Crime Statistics Management Unit Telephone 304-625-4830
Program administration; management; policy; UCR Facsimile 304-625-3566
Advisory Process; information about crime data <ucr@leo.gov>
submissions; data reporting problems; data quality;
population information
UCR Data Submissions <ucrstat@leo.gov>
All UCR data submissions must come to this e-mail
address.
Law Enforcement Online Telephone 888-334-4536
Technical Assistance/Help Desk, toll free (24/7)
Access to the UCR database for data submissions;
password administration; web assistance
NIBRS Coordinator Telephone 304-625-3092
NIBRS certification process; NIBRS policy; federal Facsimile 304-625-3566
funding for NIBRS-compliant records management <cjis_comm@leo.gov>
systems; converting from the SRS to the NIBRS Attention: NIBRS Coordinator
NIBRS Training Coordinator Telephone 888-827-6427
Requests for training; questions about classifying and Facsimile 304-625-5599
scoring <cjis_comm@leo.gov>
Attention: NIBRS Training
Coordinator
Quality Assurance Reviews Telephone 304-625-3020
Assistance for law enforcement in assessing the Facsimile 304-625-3457
integrity of their data and complying with program <acjis@leo.gov>
requirements
UCR Program Online <http://www.fbi.gov/about-
UCR Program data; data self-query capability; data us/cjis/ucr/>
submission specifications; publications; manuals;
reference information; frequently asked questions
Send correspondence to:
Federal Bureau of Investigation, Criminal Justice Information Services Division,
Uniform Crime Reporting Program, 1000 Custer Hollow Road, Clarksburg, West Virginia
26306-0159
Version 3.0, 4/07/2023
